---
title: Alluxio - Haoyuan (HY) Li
date: 2019-11-01T13:00:00Z
thumb_img_path: "/images/91fd746b4b8db0645b39ba93aed4d8a9.png"
content_img_path: ''
excerpt: ''
template: post
subtitle: Eric Anderson hosts Haoyuan Li, also known as HY, creator of Alluxio, an
  open source project and the company of the same name. HY is also a Spark committer
  and creator of Spark Streaming.
canonical_url: ''

---
Eric Anderson hosts Haoyuan Li, also known as HY, creator of Alluxio, an open source project and the company of the same name. HY is also a Spark committer and creator of Spark Streaming.

Eric Anderson: ([00:03](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=3.92))  
This is the contributor featuring the stories behind the best open source projects and their communities. I'm Eric Anderson and today I'm joined by H Y the creator of Alluxio, an open source data orchestration solution. As an aside, Alluxio is hosting the first open source data orchestration summit next week, November 7th, in the computer history museum in Mountain View, you can get a 50% discount if you use the promo code: Erik, my first name. H Y., welcome to the show. Why don't we start by having you tell us about day one at Alluxio day.

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([00:51](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=51.58))  
Day one means the launch day or a \[inaudible\]?

Eric Anderson: ([00:53](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=53.15))  
No, no. Like the, the first line of code was written.

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([00:56](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=56.52))  
Oh, that's a, that's a really good question. I don't remember. Yeah,

Eric Anderson: ([01:00](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=60.24))  
yeah. This will be a short episode.

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([01:02](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=62.66))  
yeah, I don't remember that. They want to, I know the code, uh, but I do remember the day one, uh, was fun. At the time I was a PhD student of AMPLab UC Berkeley. Okay. And, uh, I remember, uh, like doing something like Alluxio has always seen what I wanted to do. And, uh, actually I put a like state of purpose, uh, when I applied a PhD, uh, to Berkeley at the time. And, uh, my first year there, uh, I cocreated Spark streaming and it became a Apache Spark funding committee there. And, uh, after that, my, the Wisers and the, I had a conversation, uh, to start something from scratch. And, uh, at a time, this concept or the want to do was what we wanted to start. And I remember the very first group conversation we had. Uh, it was my wiser, one of my advisors Youngsta Leica, professor Yon Sika and, uh, uh, my friends \[inaudible\] and, uh, Ali, uh, from \[inaudible\], UC Berkeley, and, uh, we, four of us, we had a, uh, early, early conversation, uh, at a patio, uh, send the crews on a time we had to unpack retreat, summer retreat. It was really fun. I actually don't remember exactly what we talked, but I remember it's a good memory. It's a fun conversation, uh, for, uh, for floss.

Eric Anderson: ([02:31](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=151.7))  
Okay. So maybe just to summarize you, you had ideas that you wanted to work on, this type of thing. Going into grad school, you worked on spark streaming, made significant contributions there, and then as you were moving off that project is when you first started talking about what this project exactly is. I can, and how definitive that at this point was? I mean, did you know exactly kind of what you wanted to build or was it no, no, I want to do something new. It's in this

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([03:00](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=180.13))  
general space. So it's funny like, uh, uh, so I apply to a PhD program at Berkeley. Uh, I sat a, I want in a state on purpose. I said I wanted to create the new storage system. Oh, it's not, I mean, Alex is not a storage system, right? It's the day, the auction system. It's a new thing. Completely new concepts started from scratch. But the reason I wanted to do a stores, it's all, it's all, it's all kind of uh, uh, aligned. The reason why I want to do stop a store system was that, uh, I was very fascinated that to where in this data revolution are still very early stage. And, uh, in the duvet revolution, I feel like the most value, the value is in the data. OK. and technologies, uh, technology systems, they're enablers and they enable people to get value from extract the value from the data itself.

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([03:58](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=238.02))  
Yeah. So that's the key. Uh, I thought about it before I went to Berkeley, so if that's the key, if that's the truth, uh, what system will have the most strategic value in this will have, we'll help people create a future \[inaudible\]. And to answer that question before it Berkeley time, I thought, I look, what's the life cycle of the data? Most of the time data stays in their store system. And sometimes when some people or some program wanna read the data processes, they that read it out and put it back. Yeah. And then if there's some output, put it back as well. So that majority of the time that data is in the storage. So I thought that's the key. Yeah. And there are so many innovations happening in the storage industry, store systems, so many new systems being created all the time. So I thought that's probably something worth doing before Berkeley time.

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([04:55](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=295.09))  
That's what I wanted to do. So that in my first year at Berkeley and a very early stage before roughly time before starting this project, I was looking at a whole industry history, like particularly a storage system like industry history for 40 years and you will find very interestingly like every five to 10 years there's another wave of a new source systems disrupting the previous generation. Okay. That is a cycle. Yeah, always like that for the past 40 years and I figured there was a reasons behind it and there are three dimensions of the reason, like fundamental trend always happening in our industry. The Saudia de \[inaudible\], those three dimensions are hardware, otherwise mint architecture of the management and workload change. Okay, so that triggered this five to 20 years change and always end the storage industry. The story being repeated has been, Oh I have a better storage if you use us and what does that mean?

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([06:04](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=364.31))  
It's better. Storage is cheaper, faster, easier to use one of the three or combination of the three reasons you should use this new thing. Then I thought, look, if we create another storage system and we can be innovative as well and if we do this, create another one, probably 10 years later we'll be disrupted as well. Okay, so that's awesome. By creating something new, but a, if we can do something further, more fundamental. That's the reason we didn't do a storage. Yeah, and we also look at a trend from the compute, from the application perspective. They follow the similar trend like every three to five years is another wave of new workloads coming up is either disrupting the previous generation or at being added into the, the the, the, the, the ecosystem workloads. So because of that we feel in this industry, in order to really enable and empower all those different type of data, like applications to completely leverage that data is siloed and is stored in various stores, deployments, possibly different source systems.

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([07:21](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=441.8))  
We thought the only way probably can do this to solve this problem is to create a new layer, which we call the data orchestration system. That's how this idea evolved and took some time. Yeah, I can see why Berkeley took you. You thought this all out, not, not out. Yeah. You thought about it, thought about it. Yes. Yes. Okay. So you had this conversation and eventually you do some work. You had this conversation on the patio with Metallica and others and take me from there. And so how you got to working on this project? Yeah. I mean it's a pretty, like, it's a lot of work and this to realize this vision, it takes a long time as well. It's not a one, two people stall. Right? Like cannot get it done for one, two people. Right. So, so you got start from somewhere. Yep.

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([08:12](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=492.2))  
And uh, I was very fortunate and uh, like the lab has a very strong like history in terms of innovation. And uh, as far as the results from this day that you call system and a Apache spark is hugely popular. And also surrounded by the great technology where people in the lab, like my, the Wisers Micah colleagues there. And also they gave me the enough freedom to explore whatever I want to explore. So then we're to start at the time, the very natural ways to start from like a spark ecosystem and the very first version of Alluxio at a time, uh, the name called Takia. Yeah. It kind of forgot \[inaudible\] I had forgotten this. Yeah, it's Keon. So the very first version, the targeting workloads was only trying to share the data, uh, in mammary between different spark applications. That's an initial in natio first version. Yes. And people thought, a lot of people when they saw that announcement, they thought it's a caching system for spark, uh, at the time based on our functionality at the time. Yes, they will. It was like that. It started from there till today. We're supporting so many different types of workloads with so many different stores behind us. Um, it's a different world today. Yeah.

Eric Anderson: ([09:38](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=578.14))  
So it sounds like you had some bigger vision and from the beginning, like you, you had a big vision and you knew you wanted this initial use case, um, and, uh, your work. So who's working on it? It's you and other people in the lab at this point.

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([09:54](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=594.32))  
So many people like a, you know, like I was otherwise buying the Wisers. Right. Right. So, and people like my Tay, he has tremendous experience with open source. Right. And they all helped me like, uh, a lot like, uh, uh, I'm very grateful for that. Uh, but that's the, I call data, the very first version. Okay. Um, twice. And, uh, there was a first version, uh, never released. I don't remember what happened to that version. \[inaudible\] time flies. Yeah. Uh, actually I don't remember why I wanted to, uh, reviewed, uh, that version. Okay. So anyway, I told her the version and, uh, over the summer, or maybe over the fall and, uh, and then, uh, during the Christmas tie, I data another POS or I did it again. Uh, completely, uh, maybe, uh, maybe could it be the first version that wasn't beautiful. \[inaudible\]. So anyway, so that's a reason like a, when we announced our first open source release, it's called a version 0.2, your point of why. Okay. I could see that in the versioning. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So that's a very early on.

Eric Anderson: ([11:10](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=670.31))  
And, and any, any thoughts around that initial launch? Were there preparations you had to make?

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([11:17](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=677.04))  
What goes into putting code out around first time? So that's a, it's very early days. It's kind of crazy. Uh, it's, it's, I mean, think about, again, it's very small, right? It's not big deal. But at the time, you know, I was a little bit nervous and there was reaction from the, from the eco system. What, why that people would pick it up or tried it out at ISACA and, uh, uh, like w w we have another colleague called, uh, Andy Konwinski. Okay. Uh, he's very good at like a marketing this as well. He helped a marketing, the first ranch. Okay. Uh, have to push that in a very good way, uh, very successfully. And it was picked up by, first of all, it was picked up by Miami media. Uh, also, uh, very encouraging. Lots of people started try right away. Good. Uh, during the day or the second day of the launch. Uh, you know, we, it's like other open sources of community for me. Such a, and the, we use the Google group as a community forum, use a forum. And the first external post to that forum is this doesn't work. \[inaudible\]

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([12:29](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=749.6))  
so I was very encouraging, very encouraging. So I was very nervous when I saw that. Uh, but today if someone told me the software doesn't work, I'm very happy. So in a sense that people are trying it out, like, uh, I want to hear what doesn't work right and tell me what doesn't work and what EDA tell you. It shouldn't be the right use case or we'll fix it. So like, uh, that's, we have many, many interactions in our community Slack channel every day. Like lots of people were reporting, Oh, this is awesome. We love this tool. Or Oh, this doesn't work. Why is that so about go back to the first launch that say a, that's the first reaction from the, from the community. Yeah.

Eric Anderson: ([13:14](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=794.27))  
So, so as you, I imagine you're continuing to evolve the project now you have academic interests, you're trying to satisfy the fulfill at the same time, there's a few users that are nagging you for or curious about development. And how are you, how do you manage those two things? The academic requirements as well as the community? Is that

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([13:36](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=816.11))  
\[inaudible\] or uh, of course it's a co at the time, in the end of the day it's competing, uh, the time resource, right. My time resource, either early days. Yeah. Uh, so on one side I'm re like I w I mean I'm very passionate about this. I believe in this. Uh, and it'll be done. Yeah. And it's on one side and you need to, in order to curate a community, you need to love the community, help the community and the, enable the community to grow that requires significant amount of time. Yeah. And there's the other side, like us, us, you know, I was a PhD student back then. I said a lot of like, uh, like a responsibility, uh, in terms of getting papers out, uh, doing research, doing collaborative, uh, research projects on Alluxio, on back then called \[inaudible\]. Right. So it's all just competing the time resource. Yeah. Um, I was, I think I was very lucky at the time is very lucky.

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([14:39](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=879.92))  
So that like lots of people, they ha they have interest in this from both industry as well as academia. Yep. And, uh, there are a lot of people, uh, that are contributing this project to this community in various ways. For example, from academia perspective, uh, there were several very high profile like projects, uh, research projects built on top of this work, uh, published the, in a top notch conference, like, like OSDI, ISO, S P and SDI, the, the best conference in system and the networking and database. You, Sacha and I was very fortunate to work with those people and, or the people leading this project today, they are professors in the CMU, Stanford, uh, ESOP trial. So that's the academia side. And from the community side in a very early days, uh, like a very fast, uh, you know, you have, uh, uh, you attract people from various companies, but some problems in companies like Intel, uh, like red hat, they all like contribute to this, uh, like in a nontrivial way.

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([15:51](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=951.44))  
Our member, like they flew me, I mean, I was a student. Yeah. So I was very happy they flew me to a different cities, uh, where their major engineering resource related to this was located at the time. And uh, let us communicate, uh, with each other and uh, exchange ideas and then their engineers will try to implement it in a conduit into the open source. Uh, and uh, we just, uh, you know, communicate, I'll keep in touch all the time and uh, those people grow in a community more impact in their community as well. That's the two things. And at the same time, uh, from the resource perspective, you know, like you have, uh, 40 hours working days, 40 hours working a week, and a, if you work a slightly longer than that, so you can essentially still develop your, like divide your time of the week and you still can make things more follower, you know, each, uh, each side is still have sort of enough tie, uh, to carry them all more forward.

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([16:57](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=1017.86))  
And besides these two things, I think the AMPLab or UC Berkeley, uh, also provided a very good platform, uh, for the, uh, I could Demian research, academic research, uh, to interact with industry, uh, through like a sponsorship program of the lab, uh, as well as the like a twice a year, a retreat, which the lab invite, which the love invites a, all the sponsors and, uh, the engineer folks, uh, like technical folks in this, apart from this sponsor the company, uh, to the one same value. And students in the lab will present the results and the work and then they will give feedback, those types of things. So these all helped in the very early days. Yeah. Awesome. Yeah. And I imagine at some point

Eric Anderson: ([17:50](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=1070.19))  
the project maturity enough that you hit some milestones that might be, you probably got some customers or users in production and that could have been exciting. I don't know if you have any stories around early users in production or uh, as you're considering leaving university and deciding what to do with this project. Any stories around your shift to then decide to spend, you know, you're early in your career, I guess continuing the project. Yeah.

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([18:23](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=1103.22))  
Uh, I mean along with all the like, uh, community engagement, industry engagement like is very naturally like PR many presentations. I remember first year I probably did a hundred presentations myself. Wow. Yeah. Um, like, uh, maybe sometimes three presentations a day. It's to effectively, I mean we're living in a Valley, so that's more effective, you know, up and down in the Valley. And then, uh, at one point I remember to 25, the summer of 14, like we got some, like I got some inbound requests from the venture community. They want to understand what's going on, what's the vision and the had some conversation. And at the time also towards the end of 2014, I really sort of became the Baldwin, the ACO further girl, this girl, this community in a much more scalable way, right. Uh, to do with a while you, it requires a much more resource, uh, than at the time what we had, uh, like full time resource. And then that's the time I was very seriously thinking of maybe that's the right time to really start to do, to start a company, to carry this forward, to realize the vision, to bring more interesting stuff to, to the, to the industry. Yeah. To a more people use it.

Eric Anderson: ([19:41](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=1181.33))  
Got it. And, uh, maybe, maybe, uh, what, what in the, are there any other individuals that take, uh, kind of leading roles in this, I imagine, um, it's hard to kind of get people on, on board and maybe when they're on board, are there other people that help carry the banner for you? Yeah.

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([20:03](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=1203.35))  
Yeah. So, um, we have very strong people in the community, uh, both from the industry as well as from academia. So, um, on one side from academia, like for example, EMA lab, uh, in our lab, I'm proud. So, uh, we have the luxury that, uh, uh, we can get some very talented, uh, research assistant. Uh, they are either master's students or on their graduate students from the, from the, from UC Berkeley. And, uh, the very first person, uh, we got, uh, was, uh, it was Calvin, the person called Calvin. Yeah. And, uh, Calvin jar. So he's a very, very talented, uh, like a, uh, individual, super smart, super, super smart. So he was a very forced, uh, uh, internal person like, uh, uh, I kind of rely on and, uh, in fact, uh, he's the first person after I founded the company, he's the first person to the company and he's, uh, with us, uh, today.

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([21:12](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=1272.64))  
And, uh, Cara, a very big role got on to push this forward. And so we example from internal resource at the time and from an external perspective, I remember people from, uh, like, uh, you know, like, uh, from, uh, Intel, uh, particularly, there is a very strong team in Intel, Shanghai. Okay. Very big team working on various open source projects. And, uh, and that team, uh, the person called grace, she cares significant role to evangelize and help grow this project. And, uh, and, uh, from red hat, uh, from pivotal, which was part of EMC back then before the acquisition of EMC, Dell EMC acquisition. And, uh, uh, that's the very early stage and as people started to evolve into the project and, uh, all like conduit, the significant delay to this. Awesome. Yeah. Yeah.

Eric Anderson: ([22:14](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=1334.13))  
Well, let's fast forward us maybe a bit now. Uh, how the project maybe how you kind of have wrapped up the evolution of the project, like governance for example. Uh, at some point, you know, people might want to know how, how that's going \[inaudible\] it's gonna

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([22:32](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=1352.17))  
operate going forward. Talk through that. Yeah. Um, I mean, so first of all, um, what's the goal? Right, right. That's, that's the, that's the most important thing with a goal. You define what's, say, uh, like mechanism. Yeah. So the goal is really to realize this vision and uh, and after, I mean along the way by realizing it, uh, it requires significant collaboration, uh, like in a big community and a big ecosystem and at the same time by realizing it, this software can have very good significant impact to the world. Yeah. That is a goal. And besides, I mean you need to realize the technical vision by being the data orchestration off streaming all the data. It's like a Alluxio as a thing. The actuation system, it's like a Loxo two theta is like Kubernetes to compute. That's, that's a, that's a, that's a goal, right?

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([23:39](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=1419.72))  
Yeah. So with that, you want to build a very big community and in the, there are different parties involved and uh, the phone, the mental par is that you, we want to enable more and more users. So say there is a potential user there and they want elaborate to the open source software and the community's goal is to help them to really make those users very successful. That's a goal. Yeah. And without going in mind, the community itself will be the different people with different types of knowledge and different type of a function to have the community. There will be a people more focusing on the software development side. Yeah. Contributing, uh, court side, feature side, uh, like documentation side, testing side, all critical, all very important. That's on one side. On the other side you also have people helping evangelizing the sulfur users coming up, coming out to speak for this, a sulfur, how to solve our share, this experience with other users as well as other potential users.

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([24:56](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=1496.09))  
And these, all these people are critical. So the job of the Macanese, uh, the, the, the, the goal of the mechanism is to enable these people and to let this people have fun during their work as well as be at the same time being acknowledged. So the way we're doing this today is that we have the maintainer and we have the PMC and we have the contributor. And today we have like a thousand plus 1000 plus contributors. Uh, people can see that from our GitHub repository. I think it's almost one 1100 today. And uh, that's the contributor side and we have probably 40, uh, like PMCS are around 40 PMCS around 10 maintainers. And uh, to hold up the cult standard, uh, that's the current, this, this cart part of the structure. And then from the community there are a lot of the people testing software using the software and you want to enable those people to apply the feedback loop to the community.

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([26:05](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=1565.45))  
And the way we're doing this is to, uh, like today the best channel for us is called us. It was with Slack, the amount of power they liked. We like Slack. And then, uh, whenever some people say it doesn't work, that doesn't work or this requires, or this is confusing, that's confusing or I need another feature, all those type of things. W besides it's a conversation in a Slack channel, we encourage those people to, you know, really contribute out pro like our issue in our K-pop. And then some other people will take care of that issue. And uh, that's a Slack channel side, a, that's a community engagement site with a user community. And then after some users, some people become the user, and then we'll encourage them to talk, uh, to, we have a global online meetup, uh, besides the physical, like local meetups at different places.

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([27:00](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=1620.36))  
Now we have this online meet up, uh, to enable users to share their story. And of course we have a users at different cities match way areas. They will sometimes like host a meet us by themselves. You know, like two weeks ago, uh, in Beijing, uh, there was a meetup, uh, organized by the community off course. We helped, uh, as well. Uh, and, uh, uh, one presenter from Alibaba, uh, one presenter from, uh, uh, jd.com, one presenter, farmer, Baidu, Baidu, and they all present their production use cases. Super encouraging, super exciting, uh, like material. And, uh, for the globe online meetup example, like probably four or five weeks ago or something like that. So we had a online meet up, um, like a I N G group. Uh, they presented their production use cases, uh, of a Presto, uh, of a Presto Alluxio and uh, and DCOS and, uh, there ice, three storage systems, etc. So that's, that's how this, uh, we try to make this whole thing flow like us most last possible by steel is a lot of more work to be done to really, uh, achieve the, what do we want to achieve. Yeah. Yeah.

Eric Anderson: ([28:22](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=1702.41))  
Great. Maybe walk me through the, the contribution experience. So as you described, if I get interested in Alexia, I tried it out and I would have an idea for something to be added. I can engage with people on Slack. You can, I can raise an issue. Get hub. Yeah. If there's some interest around those activities, I could create a PR. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. And then, um, it's the,

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([28:49](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=1729.86))  
um,

Eric Anderson: ([28:50](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=1730.42))  
the, the maintainers you mentioned can choose to pull that in. Yeah. That's more or less the E.

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([28:56](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=1736.97))  
yes. Uh, but, uh, we can roughly, maybe there are three types of users. Yeah. Like one type of user, a super technical, right. And, uh, besides using our software, uh, they want to write code for us while doing new features, like what you're saying. Yep. And to typically these types of developers, either from very strong like startups or huge giant, uh, tech giants like, yeah. Like a three company I mentioned. Yeah. They have a thousands of thousands of strong engineering force in the company. So, and these type of uh, uh, this, this is a category one and they will do what you said. Yep. And when that happens, some relationships pretty strategic. For example, the company I mentioned, uh, like JV, they are trying to use us in a very big way. They are already T provide us like thousand plus nos. Yeah. And they want the D much more than that.

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([30:00](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=1800.33))  
Yeah. And uh, they have some joint development with us, uh, to contribute to the community and they are testing us, uh, new features, all those types of things. Yeah. Super, super exciting. So that's very close engagement and, and the maintainers and PMC will work with those people very closely. And the developers who, who are doing this work from those companies, they graduate, they will be promoted into PMCS. And then if they more work and have the high standards for the code, there'll be promoted as a maintainer. Yeah. So that's, that's the first category. And we have done that actually. In fact. Um, and uh, the second category is that there are people, uh, use our SaaS wall and, uh, they want to use a software or they find the sandbox, uh, with integration with their environment or some small features they want to add. And that's relatively straight forward SLAs.

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([30:54](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=1854.43))  
Our side have, um, like the community has a mechanism to make sure they are there, like requests there are cold. Uh, there are feature that there are conversations are being handled like, like respond like timely. So then they will be very happy and uh, that's what we're are doing everyday as well. And the third category is more of a towards the user by not trying to modify our call that all side. And they are trying to solve a issue by using a software without culture and software. And uh, that's actually the majority. You mean in the, yeah. And for that, like what we encourage them to do is to follow the box and, uh, file the feature request. And that's, that's uh, three different categories. We, we incarcerate in different ways. Yeah. Awesome. Yeah.

Eric Anderson: ([31:45](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=1905.79))  
Uh, H Y I want to make sure we cover anything you wanted to cover. That was, uh, the story we wanted to capture today. \[inaudible\] beginnings of the project, how the project evolved and where you're at today, especially as you engage with community. Anything in addition you want to say about Alexia or it's a community?

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([32:04](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=1924.03))  
Yeah, maybe I'll share. So this is more about the story of how it's a sulfur and community you grew up, but maybe I will share a little bit more regarding what we exactly do today. So, so then hopefully listener, the audience, if they find it interesting that they can check it out and possibly to our community as user accountability, et cetera. Please. So, uh, what we are a data observation system. So essentially in the stack we are in the middle between all the, uh, data dream applications, uh, as a top, as a top layer on top of us. And below us. That's all the storage systems. And uh, the good examples for the computer frameworks on top of us, they are like a Presto. They are like Apache spark, a like tons of flow. Uh, all the data analytics as well as machine learning tools and for future more data workloads on top of us.

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([32:58](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=1978.49))  
That's the workloads running on top of us and below us. They are all the foul systems and object stores today. Like fall system like HDFS, like NFS a, like as long as Sutra and for the object stores, uh, Amazon as three GCP, storage, uh, like, uh, like Microsoft, uh, storage, uh, or like EMC, ECS, et cetera. So this new layer, they'd ask tuition system in the middle, essentially virtualize the data from all these different source systems and uh, sometimes the cash, cash, the data as well and present all this data, uh, abstract and present all this data to all the upper layer applications. So this, enable this, any of the data dream applications we mentioned use Alluxio to interact with the data from any storage deployments. Got it. And it brings the data accessibility to these applications as far as performance gain \[inaudible\] to these applications and some very, very uh, uh, like simple and common use cases are, for example, if you'll have a hybrid cloud you will use your, you want to leverage the compute in the cloud EMR environment.

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([34:22](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=2062))  
You run your Presto spark tons of flow in a cloud on top of Alluxio co-located it and our lock seal will help manage how the data more around between the on premise environment and the cloud environment. There's a hybrid cloud use case. We are a common yeah and enable many a leading companies to do this. A cloud computer resource easily without moving the data at all. The second common use case, a single cloud data saturation use case essentially when you are running Presto spark in a single cloud environment you have data in unit three or some other stores across storage you can use Alluxio to provide performance or salary ration as consistent performance SLA and we have people running this type of work clothes like some like 50% performance improvement, something type performance improvement in the SLA guarantee case. And that's very popular as well. And beyond this too, there are many other use cases. Uh, I would encourage people to go to our website, uh, alexia.io to check them out and uh, we have maybe 40, 50 or even more production deployment detailed, uh, use case studies in the, in the power BI and people can click to see their slides, a broad, uh, to talk about how they are using Alluxio and hopefully those could be useful to our other potential users.

Eric Anderson: ([35:48](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=2148.74))  
Got it. \[inaudible\] 40 to 50 use like power BI examples is impressive. It sounds like maybe in summary that the two value propositions are one, just connectivity, being able to connect to various systems, storage systems. Yeah. Data system, Seesaw through kind of one paradigm or at least through a, be able to swap between those easily is one. And then the is performance.

Haoyuan (HY) Li: ([36:14](https://www.rev.com/transcript-editor/Edit?token=YVnd3AnRMo64gfOqGVEWY-IIDooxEKKiVJHvm2vcfUs5yWUjSvJqvxqdMBXrFpmjdb6y5-tlfOdDextIgBe8_9HACwk&loadFrom=PastedDeeplink&ts=2174.36))  
Exactly. That's a strong to strongest value at the moment. And there are other people for different words use case libraries are more valuable like a MarTech cloth. But that's the more of the last use cases. We encourage people to look at their website.